p8105\_hw1\_slv2129
================
Krishna Vemulapalli
20/09/2020

# Problem 1

Installing tidyverse library to call the tibble function

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

Creating a data frame consisting of the following:

  - a random sample of size 10 from a standard Normal distribution

  - a logical vector indicating whether elements of the sample are
    greater than 0

  - a character vector of length 10

  - a factor vector of length 10, with 3 different factor “levels”

<!-- end list -->

    ## # A tibble: 10 x 4
    ##    rand_samp log_vec char_vec fac_vec
    ##        <dbl> <lgl>   <chr>    <fct>  
    ##  1    2.22   TRUE    the      good   
    ##  2   -0.701  FALSE   and      bad    
    ##  3    2.25   TRUE    in       average
    ##  4    0.152  TRUE    tree     good   
    ##  5   -0.0418 FALSE   wood     bad    
    ##  6    1.00   TRUE    bird     average
    ##  7   -0.804  FALSE   fish     good   
    ##  8    0.747  TRUE    food     bad    
    ##  9    0.794  TRUE    rock     average
    ## 10    0.683  TRUE    stone    good

Mean of random sample variable:

    ## [1] 0.6305443

Mean of logical vector:

    ## [1] 0.7

Mean of character vector:

    ## Warning in mean.default(nd_df$char_vec): argument is not numeric or logical:
    ## returning NA

    ## [1] NA

Mean of factor vector:

    ## Warning in mean.default(nd_df$fac_vec): argument is not numeric or logical:
    ## returning NA

    ## [1] NA

From above we can deduce that one can find the mean for numeric and
logical vectors. Whereas, the mean can’t be calculated for character and
factor data type vectors.

Converting the logical, character, and factor data type variables to
numeric

``` r
log_num = as.numeric(nd_df$log_vec)

char_num = as.numeric(nd_df$char_vec)

fac_num = as.numeric(nd_df$fac_vec)
```

Both factor and logical variables got number coded. The “good”, “bad”
and “average” have been replaced with 3,2 and 1 respectively for the
factor variable. In the case of logical vector, “true” (condition
satisfied) has been coded as 1 and “false” has been coded as 0. All the
components of character variable have been replaced with “NA”. This
explains why the mean function can only be applied to numeric and
logical variable. However, the factor variable can’t perform numeric
operations despite the numerical representation.

The following actions will be performed in the chuck of code below:

  - convert the logical vector to numeric, and multiply the random
    sample by the result

<!-- end list -->

    ##  [1] 2.2216560 0.0000000 2.2520293 0.1521137 0.0000000 1.0032894 0.0000000
    ##  [8] 0.7467348 0.7939147 0.6825466

  - convert the logical vector to a factor, and multiply the random
    sample by the result

<!-- end list -->

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

  - convert the logical vector to a factor and then convert the result
    to numeric, and multiply the random sample by the result

<!-- end list -->

    ##  [1]  4.44331204 -0.70080088  4.50405854  0.30422741 -0.04184567  2.00657871
    ##  [7] -0.80419524  1.49346954  1.58782940  1.36509327

# Problem 2

Loading the penguins dataset and ggplot2 library:

``` r
data("penguins", package = "palmerpenguins")
library(ggplot2)
```

The penguins dataset consists of the following variables: species,
island, bill\_length\_mm, bill\_depth\_mm, flipper\_length\_mm,
body\_mass\_g, sex, year. The penguin species associated with this
respective dataset are Adelie, Chinstrap, Gentoo. Among these species,
the gender distribution is as follows: (female, male, other) 165, 168,
11. This data has been recorded on the penguin species from the Biscoe,
Dream, Torgersen islands. This dataset comprises of 344 rows and 8
columns. The mean flipper length of the penguins is observed as
200.9152047.

Creating a scatterplot of flipper\_length\_mm (y) vs bill\_length\_mm
(x)\`

![](p8105_hw1_slv2129_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-12-1.png)<!-- -->
